Mark Stringer
=============

#### mark.stringer\@gmail.com

#### 07803 257 982

Agile Coach, Scrum Master and Trainer
-------------------------------------

SUMMARY
=======

Agile Delivery Coach:
---------------------

My specialist area is helping teams deliver projects. I am
methodology-agnostic, using ideas from Scrum, XP, Kanban, SAFE and Lean
Start-up as appropriate.

Agile Course Author and Trainer:
--------------------------------

I conduct in-house and delegate training sessions on Agile project
management. I prepare all materials, exercises and collateral. I
developed an Agile Foundation Certificate course which has been
certified by the British Computer Society(BCS). The course relies
entirely on activities, discussion and reflection (training from the
back of the room) as training methods rather than traditional PowerPoint
presentations.

Core Skills:
------------

Agile coaching, Agile delivery.

Security Clearance
------------------

SC security cleared

EMPLOYMENT
==========

Mark Stringer Consulting Ltd - Home Office (Jan \'18 - Present)
---------------------------------------------------------------

Co-authored winning bid and then joined team as a scrum master working
with a start-up on a greenfield development project. Project went live
to deadline with agreed scope, July 2019. Second bid for continued work
won March 2020. The project was recently profiled in a Government
Digital Service Blog.

[https://services.blog.gov.uk/2021/03/05/showing-the-rewards-of-user-centred-service-design-at-scale/]()

Technologies used: node.js, react, AWS.

SopraSteria Ltd (Jan \'14 -- Dec \'17)
--------------------------------------

### Agile Coach - Smith and Nephew (August \'17 - Dec \'17)

Coaching a team who are using innovative approaches to data warehousing
on the cloud on User Story creation and Agile requirements management.

### Agile Coach - JD Williams (July\'17 -- Dec \'17)

Coaching a group of mainframe developers, both onshore and offshore
using both lean and Agile techniques. Improving communication,
increasing visibility of work, improving flow of work between teams and
vendors.

### Agile Coach/Scrum Master - giffgaff (Jan \'16 to July \'17)

Acting as Scrum Master to a team and providing coaching at executive
level across six scrum teams, totaling over 100 people on the best use
of an Agile approach to deliver the organization's business goals.

Technologies used: Python, PHP, Java, AWS.

#### Phones Marketplace (Jan \'16 -- May \'16)

Delivered the e-commerce site for second-hand phones in three months

#### giffgaff Money (Jun \'16 -- present)

Delivery of personal loans site and Free Credit Report site.

### Agile Coach/Bid Author (Oct \'15 - Dec \'15)

Providing Agile coaching and authorship on a series of successful
Government bids under the Digital Services and GCloud7 Frameworks.

### Agile Coach/Scrum Master -- Ministry of Justice(Feb \'15 - Sep \'15)

Agile Coach on an extremely high profile government project which aimed
to digitize the criminal justice process. Coached the programme from
"greenfield" to maturity with 10 Agile teams working to product a
"steel" thread minimum viable product that allowed a transaction to be
processed from complaint to sentencing.

Technologies used: open source unix stack, Java, AWS.

Tata Consulting Services (Feb \'12 -- Dec \'13)
-----------------------------------------------

### Senior Agile Consultant (Jul \'12 --Dec \'13) -- Lloyd\'s Bank, London

Responsible for producing and executing an Agile coaching and
transformation strategy across a cost reduction programme involving 10
projects, 150 people.

Tailoring an Agile coaching approach to a series of software development
projects, stepping in to support management and delivery of projects.

Technologies used, Pega workflow management.

### Agile Coach (Feb '12 -- Jun \'12) -- JP Morgan Chase, Kansas City, USA

Lead a programme of Agile transformation. Responsible for the coaching
of four teams, totaling 60 people, in the application of Agile, from
project kick-off to final delivery. This included coaching on the
introduction and implementation of a TDD and CI strategy for development
teams. Also responsible for restructuring the PMO function to work with
Agile development teams.

Techologies used: Java, COBOL.

Fry-IT Ltd (Nov \'11 -- Feb \'12)
---------------------------------

### Scrum Master

Responsible for running all Agile aspects of software development for a
team distributed across Europe.

John Wiley and Sons Ltd, Online Library (Dec \'09 -- Oct \'11)
--------------------------------------------------------------

Contract renewed 3 times

### Scrum Master and Project Manager

Delivered a \$30m project which represented a possible \$500m annual
turnover for the company. Delivered against an aggressive timescale
within a rigid 1 month window of opportunity for release in September
2010.

Responsible for running 6 agile development teams, totaling 80 people,
running Agile process meetings, daily stand-ups, scrum of scrums, sprint
planning, showcases and retrospectives.

Day-to-day management of software development by 30 developers;
reporting on project progress to senior management and planning releases
of future work. Development was in a Java environment using pair
programming, TDD and CI all project management was done using JIRA.

Technologies used: Java.

Agile Lab (Jun \'07 -- Dec \'09) Own Company
--------------------------------------------

### Agile Project Management Consultant

Developed training materials for Agile Project Management courses and
coached new Agile teams. Clients included:

#### 

University of Sussex (Feb \'05 - Jun \'07)
------------------------------------------

### Applications Researcher and Software Development Project Manager

Managed the delivery of working software on a strict timescale that was
fit for purpose and ready to be deployed in private homes as part of a
research study.

Soda Creative (Jul \'04 - Feb \'05)
-----------------------------------

### Project Manager:

First encounter with Agile. Lead the project for an internet bank
through the full development life cycle. Met challenging deadlines with
deliveries of working software against a backdrop of frequently changing
regulatory requirements.

University of Cambridge (Oct \'02 - Jul \'04)
---------------------------------------------

UI Researcher

Xerox Research Centre Europe (Mar \'98 -- Oct \'02)
---------------------------------------------------

Researcher

IBM (Oct \'94 -- Mar \'98)
--------------------------

Software Developer

EDUCATION/QUALIFICATIONS
========================

Academic
--------

-   Diploma in German - Open University (\'98-\'00)

-   MSc in Cognitive Science -- Birmingham University (\'92-\'93)

-   MA Hons Philosophy (2:1) -- St Andrews (\'87-\'91)

Vocational
----------

-   British Computer Society Agile Foundation Certificate

-   CSM (Certified Scrum Master)

-   SCJP (Sun Certified Java Programmer)

-   UK Driving Licence

Courses Recently Attended
-------------------------

-   Liberating Structures

-   Certified SAFE Agilist (Leading Safe)

-   Coaching Tired Teams

Interests
---------

Hobbies: Open-mic stand-up comedy (50+ gigs in 2019). Currently writing
a book about project management entitled "Delivering the Impossible".
